.TH COPYDEPS 1 "2020-06-28" "" "User Commands Manual"
.
.SH NAME
.B copydeps
\- copy a program's dependencies (\fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR files)
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY copydeps
[\fIOPTIONS\fI]
.I EXECUTABLE
[\fITARGET-DIR\fR]
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B copydeps
is a small program that can be used to find and copy all
\fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR files needed by a program to run.
This can be useful when you want to bundle an application
together will all its dependencies.

.I EXECUTABLE
can be one of the following supported formats:
.br
\(bu 32-bit ELF
.br
\(bu 64-bit ELF
.br
\(bu i386 Microsoft Windows executable
.br
\(bu x86_64 Microsoft Windows executable

.I TARGET-DIR
specifies the directory to copy the \fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR files to.
When omitted, defaults to the directory of the target executable.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print the list of dependencies
without actually copying the \fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR files.
.TP
.B \-\-exedir
Include the directory of the executable
in the \fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR resolve paths.
Files found in the exedir are preferred over those found anywhere else.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print a short help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-ignore\fR \fIPATTERN\fR
Add the regular expression \fIPATTERN\fR to the ignore-list
(\fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR names that should not be resolved nor copied over).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-clobber
Do not overwrite \fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR files
already existing in the target directory.
.TP
\fB\-\-override\fR \fIPATTERN\fR
Add the regular expression \fIPATTERN\fR to the override-list
(\fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR names that should always be resolved and copied over).
Overrides take precedence over ignores.
.TP
\fB\-\-search\-dir\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR
Add \fIDIRECTORY\fR to the list of paths to search when
resolving \fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR names.
User-specified directories take precedence over system paths.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Print the names of the dependencies as they're being copied over.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
An error in program arguments.
.TP
.B 2
Failed to parse \fIEXECUTABLE\fR, or it's an unsupported format.
.TP
.B 3
Failed to parse one of the \fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR files,
be it a direct dependency of \fIEXECUTABLE\fR, or a dependency of another library.
.TP
.B 4
Failed to resolve one or more of the dependency names.
.TP
.B 5
An error occurred when copying one or more of the files.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
ldd(1), objdump(1)
