.TH COPYDEPS 1 "2019-07-20" "" "User Commands Manual"
.
.SH NAME
.B copydeps
\- copy a program's dependencies (\fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR files)
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY copydeps
[\fIOPTIONS\fI]
.I EXECUTABLE
[\fITARGET-DIR\fR]
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B copydeps
is a small program that can be used to find and copy all
\fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR files needed by a program to run.
This can be useful when you want to bundle an application
together will all its dependencies.

.I EXECUTABLE
can be one of the following supported formats:
.br
\(bu 32-bit ELF
.br
\(bu 64-bit ELF
.br
\(bu i386 Microsoft Windows executable
.br
\(bu x86_64 Microsoft Windows executable

.I TARGET-DIR
specifies the directory to copy the \fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR files to.
When omitted, defaults to the directory of the target executable.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-blacklist\fR \fIPATTERN\fR
Add \fIPATTERN\fR to the built-in blacklist (\fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR names
that should not be resolved nor copied over).
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print the list of dependencies
without actually copying the \fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR files.
.TP
.B \-\-exedir
Include the directory of the executable
in the \fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR resolve paths.
Files found in the exedir are preferred over those in system paths.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print a short help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-clobber
Do not overwrite \fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR files
already existing in the target directory.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Print the names of the dependencies as they're being copied over.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-whitelist\fR \fIPATTERN\fR
Add \fIPATTERN\fR to the whitelist (\fB.so\fR / \fB.dll\fR names
that should always be resolved and copied over).
The whitelist takes precedence over the blacklist.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
An exit status of \fB0\fR indicates success.
Should the program fail to resolve any of the dependencies, or there is an error when copying the files over
to the target directory, the exit status will be non-zero.

When performing a dry run, the exit status will always be \fB0\fR, even if the program
failed to resolve some dependencies.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
ldd(1), objdump(1)
